Artificial Intelligence Transparency Statement

The Digital Transformation Agency's (“DTA”) ‘Policy for the responsible use of AI in government’ outlines Australia's approach to leading Artificial Intelligence (“AI”) adoption responsibly, ensuring its safe and ethical use. Transparency about the use of new and emerging technologies, such as AI, and the potential impact it can have on the public is key to building public trust and is a primary focus of the Policy.

To support the primary objective of the Policy, the Future Fund Management Agency (“FFMA”) aims to ensure transparency regarding the development, implementation, and review of AI technology.

FFMA has issued this AI Transparency Statement to explain our use of AI and the steps we have taken to ensure its safe application.

FFMA's definition of AI is informed by the guidelines provided by the DTA, as outlined in the Policy.

How we utilise AI technology at FFMA

FFMA seeks to leverage AI to enhance its operations and investment capabilities, where appropriate. The primary use of AI is to enhance workplace productivity by providing tools that aid in coding, research, writing and routine tasks. This allows staff to focus more on high-value activities that align with FFMA's purpose of investing for the benefit of future generations of Australians.

At FFMA, the use of AI is assessed through established governance processes and adheres to required legislation and regulation frameworks and policies. Additionally, FFMA staff are educated on AI and security through appropriate training, policies and other awareness-raising activities.

Public interactions

This AI Transparency Statement describes how FFMA’s use of AI may affect public interactions with FFMA. FFMA engages with the public primarily through communications, such as:

Annual reports: FFMA publishes detailed annual reports that outline investment performance, organisational strategies, and other insights into the performance and operations of FFMA.
Media releases: FFMA may issue press releases and publicly available statements to announce developments and updates on its performance, ensuring the public is informed about its activities.
Website: FFMA maintains an external website that offers access to reports, investment performance, legislation and governance related information, media updates and a careers portal.
FFMA does not have individual customers or clients. For transparency and communications with the public as noted above, if AI technologies are used, any output(s) generated by an AI technology are reviewed and checked by Agency staff.

How to contact us about our use of AI

For enquiries, please contact us using one of the options provided here.

This statement will be reviewed annually, when we make a significant change to our approach to AI, or when guidance from DTA is received that impacts this statement.

Published 28th of February 2025.